Sensitive and Alone

People tell me I take things too seriously or I react too strongly sometimes. I am aware that I’m sensitive. Advice about toughening up and not letting what others say get to me is welcome, but I feel if I become too tough, I’ll lose my sincerity. I feel good about caring deeply about people. I like texting my friends just to ask how they are; I want to listen when someone I care about is going through a struggle so they know they are not alone. The truth is, I feel lonely often. Even when I’m chatting in person with someone I care about, I can feel lonely. Often I feel really happy about simple things too. I’m learning to embrace when my emotions change and the ways I can influence them. At the same time, I understand how having strong reactions can lead to negative outcomes too.

I don’t want to lose those feelings and I don’t want to become jaded if I get a thicker skin. I fear cynicism because I feel I’ll be missing moments of appreciation if I tune out of reactions. However, I do understand that I need to realize detriments to following those emotions down a rabbit hole and making conclusions based off reactions. I am a work in progress and I need to learn to live with my strong emotions more effectively, because I have reached false conclusions because of them. My anger can be strong too. Just like being happy about simple things, I need to realize that moments of anger change to different feelings too. It’s much better to lead with kindness. I can’t just lead with exactly how I feel in a moment, because my reactions may not actually be warranted for a certain situation. 

I’m learning that what I do with my feelings the moment after I feel them is crucial. When I don’t want to get up in the morning because I was sad about something the night before, getting in the shower immediately instead of staying in bed is a better solution so I can get to class on time. When I’m lonely, realizing the warmth of my friend can help me understand that there is no factual reason for me to be lonely. Soothing myself with a warm cup of tea when I am actually alone and feeling lonely is a good idea too. I think I can live with my strong emotions without having to build a tough exterior, although a tough exterior is probably an easier solution than remaining as transparent as I am. Maybe I need to find a better balance between the two solutions.
